created a user defined function in a particular workbook means that that function will only
be available within that workbook.
In this video,
we'll look at how you store functions in Microsoft's personal workbook,
making them university available.
09 even started.
That's no open up the final filed 05 and you'll notice that this workbook has the file
extension XLs sex.
There's not a macro enabled workbook,
So what we're going to do is to create a macro which lives in excels personal workbook.
Whenever you create a user defined function in excels personal macro workbook,
that function is available for use in any workbook.
And you don't have to save your workbook in the special macro enabled Hornet.
If all you started writing B B A,
the personal workbook will be visible,
so we're going to developer and click on Visual Basic Toe launched a visual basic editor.
You'll see that the only project that we have is full,
the file that I'm just opened.
So what we want to do is to write a function,
but we don't want to store it in this particular work.
We want to story in excels own macro work,
so it's always available.
So a simple trick for making the personal macro workbook available is to use the macro
recorder.
If I simply click on record Macro,
I don't actually want to record a macro.
I'm just doing this to make the personal micro workbook available.
So the key thing is here in this drop down stall the macro in,
make sure we choose personal macro workbook and when we click OK,
Excel creates the macro stores it in the personal macro workbook,
thereby making the personal macro work with visible.
So without doing anything,
we can now just click on Stop recorded.
When we go back to the visual basic editor,
we now have an extra project or the personal bankers workbook.
And inside it we have a models folder and inside that the model that has been generated
automatically for us to store the macro that we started.
Obviously,
we don't need this macro so we can just delete it.
But that simple trick basically enables you to make the personal macron workbook available
so you can start using it for your user defined functions for convenience.
We're not gonna take this approach during this course will just put out Macron's in
individual Worth books,
which is the least efficient way of working.
But for training purposes,
it's fine.
When you come to write your own user defined functions,
you'll probably find that this is a good way of having more user defined functions always
available.
So let's just rename the module.
I'm gonna call it M U T X and let's write our second user defined function.
So for this example,
we're going to have a function which does a simple conversion.
That missile give us a chance to work with function arguments.
So in the training folder we open up 05 right in the UDF in the personal workbook dot txt.
We have a simple conversion formula on.
We want to encapsulate that into a user defined function.
So let's just copulate formula and we're now going to write a function which does that
conversion that you create the function we can use insert procedure.
Specify that type is being a function the scope of defaults to public,
which is what we want,
and this function will calculate a person's body mass index B m I.
So let's call it be at mine or to be more accurate.
Let's say B M I under school Imperial,
there's a function,
but this time we do need to specify arguments.
So let's begin by pasted in the generic formula on will convert this into a comment.
And we do that by putting an apostrophe at the start of the line,
and their function is to enable you to explain the lines of code that you're writing.
This is both for the benefit of other people.
Read in your code and for yourself when you come back to the code and it's not this
familiar is when you initially wrote it,
so we can see from the formula that the two bits of information that we need are the weight
in pounds on the height in inches.
So those are the two arguments that we need to specify within the parentheses,
so we can simply call them wait.
And if you remember from the previous video,
we then specify the type of data that this parameter will our human will accept.
We do that with the keyword,
as so this is going to be a decimal number,
and the data type that will use for that is referred to a single coma,
and then we have the heights if we can.
Also specify is a single when the final part of the definition is the data type that's
returned by our function,
which will also be single.
So now we can specify the results produced by the function.
I'll just press tab to invent the line and to specify the results.
Muse the keyword Let and we use the name of the function equal the necessary calculation,
and we can just follow the generic formula.
So open parentheses wait,
divided by open parentheses.
Height multiplied by heights,
close parentheses twice multiplied by 703 That's all we need to do for this simple function
.
So we're input in two arguments,
and then we use in both of those arguments in a calculation,
especially find that our function returns the results off that calculation.
So before testing,
we go to debug Andrews.
Compile.
No,
there is appear.
So we good to go ahead and test one thing that you're not able to do when you put functions
in excels personal Macron workbook is to simply start typing the function and have excel.
Recognize it.
So if I type for example,
equals B.
M I.
You'll see there's no intelligence.
We'll see that there's no water in completion.
So what we need to do is to use the insert function command,
and this is available just on the left of the formula bar in certain country.
It's also available in the home tab in the form of his tab.
So whichever is convenient and this brings up the insert function dialogue.
We look at our categories as soon as you start creating user defined functions,
an extra categories automatically created,
called user defined.
And within that you'll find the function that we've just written.
And you also noticed the syntax that's required.
Whenever you store a function in the personal macro workbook,
you have to actually precede it with the name of the personal macro workbook and an
exclamation month when we click.
OK,
because we've used the Insert Function command.
We get this useful wizard so you can see our two parameters weight and height on using
commanders click on the cell containing the weight and the cell containing the height,
and our function returns the correct results.
Speaking land.
Just copy that,
holding it down like any other function.
So although the syntax used to reference the function is a pit long winded,
it's still useful in that you can immediately distinguish between excels,
functions and your own user defined functions.
They makes them stand out.
Basically,
if we now quit excel,
there are two things which we can save on which,
Excel will ask is whether we want to say the changes to this workbook,
but also the changes to the personal macro workbook.
So let's go ahead and quit Excel.
Do you want to save changes to this file?
Yes,
we do.
But then a second message appears.
You want to save the changes you made to the personal macro workbook,
And of course,
we would need to click on Save if we want to preserve those changes.
So if you want to experiment with that feature,
go ahead and click on Save and then the macro that you created in the personal macro
workbook will still be available.
But for training purposes,
it's more convenient to store our Mac rose in individual workbooks,
so that's what we'll be doing.
So I'll just click on cancel for the moment